Dialog vs popup (#735)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/compose/compose-desktop-top-level-windows-management.md

Reviewer: Meta description pls?

Reviewer: Since "Dialogs" is a top-level section, I'd mention them in the intro, too.

Reviewer: The link in What's next still leads to GitHub.

<include from="compose-desktop-scrollbars.md" element-id="desktop-snippets-intro"/>

## Single-window applications

You can create a single window application by calling the `singleWindowApplication()` function.

> The `singleWindowApplication()` function is easier to use but has the following limitations:

Reviewer: Easier to use than the plain `application()`? Should this section be after "Opening and closing windows"?

* The application can have only one window.

> * You cannot add custom closing logic.

Reviewer: Especially since we mention custom closing logic before any other closing logic.

> * You cannot change the attributes of the window in runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You cannot change the attributes of the window at runtime.
```

<img src="compose-window-ask-to-close.animated.gif" alt="Close with confirmation" preview-src="compose-window-ask-to-close.png" width="600"/>

## Create a single-window application

You can create a single window application by calling the `singleWindowApplication()` function.

> The `singleWindowApplication()` function is easier to use but has the following limitations:

Reviewer: I'm still missing something that is harder to use :) maybe it can be mentioned in the first sentence: "Instead of creating a `Window` from scratch you can create a single window application..."

It's still a jump to use a comparative in a new paragraph, but at least the context would be there.

> * The application can have only one window.

Reviewer: Can we rephrase this in line with other items? "You cannot open additional windows after the application is initialized" or something.

Also does this limitation apply to dialogs, or only actual `Window`?

Reviewer 2: > * The application can have only one window.

That's incorrect. `singleWindowApplication` means only one top-level window (and even that is not exact).
You can open additional windows inside:
```
fun main() = singleWindowApplication {
    Box(Modifier.fillMaxSize(), contentAlignment = Alignment.Center) {
        var showWindow by remember { mutableStateOf(false) }
        Button(onClick = { showWindow = true} ) {
            Text("Show Window")
        }

        if (showWindow) {
            Window(onCloseRequest = { showWindow = false }, state = rememberWindowState()) {

            }
        }
    }
}
```

`singleWindowApplication` is just a convenience function that wraps `application { Window { ... } }`; it doesn't enforce any limitations. I would just document it as such.

* You cannot add custom closing logic.
* You cannot change the attributes of the window at runtime.

```kotlin
import androidx.compose.ui.window.singleWindowApplication

fun main() = singleWindowApplication {
    // Content of the window
}
```

> For a fully customizable window, use the [`Window()` composable](#opening-and-closing-windows) in the `application` entry point.

Reviewer: This kind of solves the problem of the intro, that's why I'd put it there: if you missed the general `Window` section, it's above, with the fully customizable stuff.

For a more complex example, see the [Code Viewer](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/tree/master/examples/codeviewer) sample.

## Dialogs and popups

Compose Multiplatform for desktop provides two ways to display secondary UI on top of a window:

* **Dialogs** are separate OS-level windows with their own title bar. 
  Use `DialogWindow()` for confirmations, file pickers, or any interaction that should have its own window.
* **Popups** are overlays rendered inside the current window, without a separate OS window or a title bar.

>   Use `Popup()` for floating UI anchored to a component in the main window, like dropdowns or custom overlays.

Reviewer 3: 1 Mixing desktop-only dialogs APIs with common `Popup`s
2 The description is just incorrect - see https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/compose-desktop-swing-interoperability.html#experimental-separate-views-for-popups

import androidx.compose.runtime.setValue
import androidx.compose.ui.Alignment
import androidx.compose.ui.Modifier
import androidx.compose.ui.window.DialogWindow
import androidx.compose.ui.window.Window
import androidx.compose.ui.window.WindowPosition
import androidx.compose.ui.window.application
import androidx.compose.ui.window.rememberDialogState

fun main() = application {
    Window(
        onCloseRequest = ::exitApplication,
        title = "Main window"
    ) {
        var isDialogOpen by remember { mutableStateOf(false) }

        Button(onClick = { isDialogOpen = true }) {
            Text(text = "Open dialog")
        }

        if (isDialogOpen) {
            DialogWindow(
                onCloseRequest = { isDialogOpen = false },
                state = rememberDialogState(position = WindowPosition(Alignment.Center)),
                title = "Dialog"
            ) {
                Box(contentAlignment = Alignment.Center, modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
                    Text("This is a dialog")
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="if (isDialogOpen) { DialogWindow("}

> ### Popups

Reviewer 3: It should be moved out from desktop docs because it belongs to all platforms.
Also it should compare it with common `Dialog`, not with desktop-only `DialogWindow`

For a more complex example, see the [Code Viewer](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/tree/master/examples/codeviewer) sample.

## Dialogs

You can use `DialogWindow()` for displaying a separate OS-level window with its own title bar for confirmations, 
file pickers, or any interaction that should have its own window.

> The `DialogWindow()` composable creates a modal window that locks its parent until the user closes it.

Reviewer 2: `DialogWindow` is not necessarily modal.
It now has a `modalityType` argument with these options:
```
        /**
         * Indicates the dialog should be non-modal, i.e., should not block any windows.
         *
         * In AWT, this corresponds to [java.awt.Dialog.ModalityType.MODELESS].
         */
        val Modeless = DialogModalityType("Modeless")

        /**
         * Indicates the dialog should block windows from the same document, except its own
         * descendants.
         *
         * A document is a top-level window without an owner.
         *
         * In AWT, this corresponds to [java.awt.Dialog.ModalityType.DOCUMENT_MODAL].
         */
        val DocumentModal = DialogModalityType("Document")

        /**
         * Indicates the dialog should block windows from the same application.
         *
         * In AWT, this corresponds to [java.awt.Dialog.ModalityType.APPLICATION_MODAL].
         */
        val ApplicationModal = DialogModalityType("Application")
```

Author: Thanks! I've added details about the new `modalityType` parameter and updated the code snippet to show how to use it

For a more complex example, see the [Code Viewer](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/tree/master/examples/codeviewer) sample.

> ## Dialogs

Reviewer: Putting dialogs above window state makes us refer to window state in the sample before it's introduced. Do we lose anything by putting it later?

Maybe first window state, then multiple windows, then dialogs.

You can use `DialogWindow()` to display a separate OS-level window with its own title bar.

> This is useful for confirmations, file pickers, or any interaction that requires a dedicated window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful for confirmations, file pickers, or any interaction that is required to complete for the workflow to continue.
```
To separate a little from the "multiple windows" case.

> You can control whether the dialog blocks interaction with other windows by using the `modalityType` parameter. 

Reviewer: I noted this in code, but if we're using experimental stuff, it should be noted as experimental, at least to warn about opt-ins.

> You can control whether the dialog blocks interaction with other windows by using the `modalityType` parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control whether the dialog blocks interaction with other windows with the `modalityType` parameter. 
```

The following options are available:

> * `Modeless` does not block any other windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DialogModalityType.Modeless` does not block any other windows.
```
To make the reference to the actual class clearer and to mirror the example.

> * `DocumentModal` blocks the parent top-level window and any other windows attached to it, except for the dialog's own descendants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DialogModalityType.DocumentModal` blocks the parent top-level window and any other windows attached to it, except for the dialog's own descendants.
```

> * `ApplicationModal` blocks all other windows in the same application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DialogModalityType.ApplicationModal` blocks all other windows in the same application.
```

> For overlay UI that stays inside the current window (dropdowns, tooltips, and
> custom overlays), use the multiplatform [Popup()](compose-popups.md) composable.
>
{style="tip"}

The following code sample combines a regular window with an `ApplicationModal` dialog:

```kotlin
import androidx.compose.foundation.layout.Box
import androidx.compose.foundation.layout.fillMaxSize
import androidx.compose.material.Button
import androidx.compose.material.Text
import androidx.compose.runtime.getValue
import androidx.compose.runtime.mutableStateOf
import androidx.compose.runtime.remember
import androidx.compose.runtime.setValue
import androidx.compose.ui.Alignment
import androidx.compose.ui.Modifier
import androidx.compose.ui.window.DialogWindow
import androidx.compose.ui.window.Window
import androidx.compose.ui.window.WindowPosition
import androidx.compose.ui.window.application
import androidx.compose.ui.window.rememberDialogState

> import androidx.compose.ui.window.DialogModalityType

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import androidx.compose.ui.window.DialogModalityType
import androidx.compose.ui.ExperimentalComposeUiApi
```

> fun main() = application {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@OptIn(ExperimentalComposeUiApi::class)
fun main() = application {
```

    Window(
        onCloseRequest = ::exitApplication,
        title = "Main window"
    ) {
        var isDialogOpen by remember { mutableStateOf(false) }

        Button(onClick = { isDialogOpen = true }) {
            Text(text = "Open dialog")
        }

        if (isDialogOpen) {
            DialogWindow(
                onCloseRequest = { isDialogOpen = false },
                state = rememberDialogState(position = WindowPosition(Alignment.Center)),
                title = "Dialog",

>                 modalityType = DialogModalityType.ApplicationModal

Reviewer: It should be mentioned somewhere that `DialogModalityType` is experimental, to explain why a fairly simple sample needs an opt-in.

Is there no way to do the same with stable APIs?

            ) {
                Box(contentAlignment = Alignment.Center, modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
                    Text("This is a dialog")
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="if (isDialogOpen) { DialogWindow("}

## Window state

> `WindowState` is a separate API class for the window placement, current position, and size. The placement attribute allows you to specify how the window is placed on the screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `WindowState` class holds window placement, current position, and size. The placement attribute allows you to specify how the window is placed on the screen:
```

import androidx.compose.ui.graphics.Color
import androidx.compose.ui.unit.Dp
import androidx.compose.ui.unit.dp
import androidx.compose.ui.window.Window
import androidx.compose.ui.window.application
import androidx.compose.ui.window.rememberWindowState

fun main() = application {
    Window(
        onCloseRequest = ::exitApplication,
        state = rememberWindowState(width = Dp.Unspecified, height = Dp.Unspecified),
        title = "Adaptive size",
        resizable = false
    ) {
        Column(Modifier.background(Color(0xFFEEEEEE))) {
            Row {
                Text("label 1", Modifier.size(100.dp, 100.dp).padding(10.dp).background(Color.White))
                Text("label 2", Modifier.size(150.dp, 200.dp).padding(5.dp).background(Color.White))
                Text("label 3", Modifier.size(200.dp, 300.dp).padding(25.dp).background(Color.White))
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="state = rememberWindowState(width = Dp.Unspecified, height = Dp.Unspecified)"}

<img src="compose-window-adaptive-size.png" alt="Adaptive window size" width="451"/>

### Listen to state changes

> If you need to react to state changes and send a value to a non-composable part of your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To react to state changes and send a value to a non-composable part of your application
```

            Item("Exit", onClick = state.exit)
        }
    }
}

private class MyApplicationState {
    val windows = mutableStateListOf<MyWindowState>()

    init {
        windows += MyWindowState("Initial window")
    }

    fun openNewWindow() {
        windows += MyWindowState("Window ${windows.size}")
    }

    fun exit() {
        windows.clear()
    }

    private fun MyWindowState(
        title: String
    ) = MyWindowState(
        title,
        openNewWindow = ::openNewWindow,
        exit = ::exit,
        windows::remove
    )
}

private class MyWindowState(
    val title: String,
    val openNewWindow: () -> Unit,
    val exit: () -> Unit,
    private val close: (MyWindowState) -> Unit
) {
    fun close() = close(this)
}
```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="MyApplicationState { val windows = mutableStateListOf<MyWindowState>()"}

<img src="compose-multiple-windows.animated.gif" alt="Multiple windows" preview-src="compose-multiple-windows.png" width="600"/>

For a more complex example, see the [Code Viewer](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/tree/master/examples/codeviewer) sample.

## Show dialogs

> You can use `DialogWindow()` to display a separate OS-level window with its own title bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `DialogWindow()` composable to display a separate OS-level window with its own title bar.
```

```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="LaunchedEffect(state) { snapshotFlow { state.size } .onEach(::onWindowResize)"}

## Manage multiple windows

> If an application has multiple windows, you can create a separate class for the application state and open or close windows in response to the `mutableStateListOf` changes:

Reviewer: Can we remove the conditional here? "To manage multiple windows, you can create a separate class..."
As I understand it, the application has multiple windows as soon as I open multiple windows, and not before.

    )
}

private class MyWindowState(
    val title: String,
    val openNewWindow: () -> Unit,
    val exit: () -> Unit,
    private val close: (MyWindowState) -> Unit
) {
    fun close() = close(this)
}
```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="MyApplicationState { val windows = mutableStateListOf<MyWindowState>()"}

<img src="compose-multiple-windows.animated.gif" alt="Multiple windows" preview-src="compose-multiple-windows.png" width="600"/>

For a more complex example, see the [Code Viewer](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/tree/master/examples/codeviewer) sample.

## Show dialogs

You can use `DialogWindow()` to display a separate OS-level window with its own title bar.
This is useful for confirmations, file pickers, or any interaction the user must complete before continuing.

You can use the experimental `modalityType` parameter to control whether the dialog blocks interaction with other windows.
You can set it to one of the following values:

* `Modeless` does not block any other windows.
* `DocumentModal` blocks the parent top-level window and any other windows attached to it, except for the dialog's own descendants.

> * `ApplicationModal` blocks all other windows in the same application.

Reviewer: Re-raising the point: I think actual values (e.g. `DialogModalityType.Modeless`) would be clearer, as is the user can copy-paste it and then have to figure out themself why it doesn't work as a value.

Author: Added `DialogModalityType` to the intro sentence + we already have the full sample right below that shows the exact syntax to copy

import androidx.compose.ui.window.rememberDialogState
import androidx.compose.ui.window.DialogModalityType
import androidx.compose.ui.ExperimentalComposeUiApi

// Enables experimental modalityType
@OptIn(ExperimentalComposeUiApi::class)
fun main() = application {
    Window(
        onCloseRequest = ::exitApplication,
        title = "Main window"
    ) {
        var isDialogOpen by remember { mutableStateOf(false) }

        Button(onClick = { isDialogOpen = true }) {
            Text(text = "Open dialog")
        }

        if (isDialogOpen) {
            DialogWindow(
                onCloseRequest = { isDialogOpen = false },
                state = rememberDialogState(position = WindowPosition(Alignment.Center)),
                title = "Dialog",
                modalityType = DialogModalityType.ApplicationModal
            ) {
                Box(contentAlignment = Alignment.Center, modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
                    Text("This is a dialog")
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="if (isDialogOpen) { DialogWindow("}

## Hide windows to the system tray

> By default, closing the window exits the application. To hide the window to the system tray instead, 

Reviewer: We probably should mention that on macOS it's called Menu Bar just to be thorough.

<img src="compose-window-minimize.animated.gif" alt="Changing the state" preview-src="compose-window-minimize.png" width="600"/>

### Adaptive window size

When you don't know the size of the expected content and cannot specify the optimal window dimensions in advance,
you can set one or both dimensions of `WindowSize` to `Dp.Unspecified`. Compose Multiplatform for desktop will automatically adjust the initial size of your window

> to fit the content:

Reviewer 2: I would rather frame this in a positive light. Not "when you don't know", but "setting the window size to match the content's preferred size use ... "

<img src="compose-window-minimize.animated.gif" alt="Changing the state" preview-src="compose-window-minimize.png" width="600"/>

> ### Adaptive window size

Reviewer: I see that most headings are changed from imperative verbs to something else, but I think the approach was informative — and made us think less about the implementation we offer and more about the problems that we solve. WDYT?

To size a window based on its content without providing dimensions in advance, 

> set one or both dimensions of `WindowSize` to `Dp.Unspecified`. 

Reviewer: The example doesn't use to `WindowSize`, I'm guessing we're dealing with the window state here? We can just say "set one or both dimensions of the window" and then point out with a code comment where exactly it's happening.

> Compose Multiplatform will then automatically adjust the initial window size to fit your content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compose Multiplatform automatically adjusts the initial window size to fit your content:
```

        if (isDialogOpen) {
            DialogWindow(
                onCloseRequest = { isDialogOpen = false },
                state = rememberDialogState(position = WindowPosition(Alignment.Center)),
                title = "Dialog",
                modalityType = DialogModalityType.ApplicationModal
            ) {
                Box(contentAlignment = Alignment.Center, modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
                    Text("This is a dialog")
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> {initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="if (isDialogOpen) { DialogWindow("}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="if (isDialogOpen) { DialogWindow( ... ) }"}
```
The unclosed brackets are killing me personally.

```
{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true" collapsed-title="LaunchedEffect(state) { snapshotFlow { state.size } .onEach(::onWindowResize)"}

## System tray

> To hide the window instead of closing it, you can change the `windowState.isVisible` state:

Reviewer: Either this or the code needs more comments on what is supposed to be happening — I'd at least say that you need to close the window to make `!isVisible` true, because it's not exactly intuitive.
